so look i just want to start by saying
the kind of most generous thing i can
say to the other side here
which is that i completely recognize
that a lot of people on the left are
trying to make the world a better place
and that they get involved with
communism and marxism
you know with with positive intentions
and
sorry i was just going to say you know
very often when i'm dealing with
conservatives or right wingers
i can't say that for them where it's
like look what
motivated you to get involved in
politics what are you trying to do like
it's it's not universal
um i'd also say you know i have a
background dealing with um
uh buddhist philosophy and buddhist
politics
a lot of those people do not have good
intentions so i can definitely say that
when i'm dealing with the far left wing
i am very often dealing with people who
have positive intentions and want to
make the world a better place
however you know i do think that you
know the legacy of marxism for example
is very fundamentally flawed and bad and
wrong
and when i talk to younger people
sometimes older people
but now forty two but i started people
in their fifties and sixties about this
stuff
you know um when they ask for advice
about reading marks or getting familiar
with that i don't tell them not
to read this stuff or to slam the door
on it but i give them a lot of caution
like look if this is the research you're
going to be doing here are the issues
you're going to be encountering
here's the type of dishonesty and
misleading material written into the
text
about a year and a half ago my
girlfriend got interested in
studying karl marx in his legacy and we
did that it was like a university course
i gave her this whole background on it
and we started going through
a communist manifesto in des capital and
talking about its place in history
so you know my my my position or my
perspective
relative to that history is not of a
kind of
ignorant outsider uh throwing stones at
it
you know i'm someone who appreciates the
good and the bad of it
but now in the year 2020 things being
what they are obviously what i have to
say about it is a lot more
uh cautionary than encouraging
so you know a lot of things are like
that and but again that
that first concession i made is not
insignificant
most people who get involved with this
they do have some kind of
good intentions which is worth
the opposite side remembering well like
uh to be fair on you like there's also
uh people who have not only just like
have bad intentions and all like power
hungry like stella
is kind of like state communists and
looking to like take what it can from
others and
but then there's also the people who are
even like well-intentioned but they're
so misled
and down this kind of um you know and
you know vanguard thinking that they
dismiss the rationality of
others around them and seek to you know
overthrow this you know invisible enemy
you know this ideological threat that is
capitalism
and that like it goes to their heads and
then ultimately they become these like
despotic kind of cruel evil human beings
without even realizing it because
that you know capitalism has tainted
everyone else you know they've become
like so ideologically
you know embedded within this like um
sort of like dogmatic view
that they become like nasty horrible
human beings without even realizing it i
do appreciate that and i think that the
horrors of the 20th century have
taught us that you know like being like
you know the road to hell can be paid
with good intentions it's like
i have no doubt that in many cases like
you know like lenin's philosophy
in many ways he was an idealist hoping
for like you know this football stage
communism in
a communist environment which is very
much like star trek or something
um um
sorry someone was that's thomas and
essentially um
he was an idealist in that respect but
ultimately like the regime that he
publicated was cruel and unusual
it was it was wrong um especially when
you see what stalinism went and did
right so so look i think there's a
really good segue there so
what i was wanting to ask you because so
criminal but i believe you just identify
as a socialist you don't describe
yourself as a communist right like
you're a kind of
intermediate positioner
okay so right so i mean the question i
was going to put to you is about
democracy
in a pragmatic sense because i think it
puts these other issues into a useful
it calibrates all these other issues
we're talking about
now lenin is a guy who lost
an election they had elections in 1917
in russia and he lost and he decided to
hunt down and murder
all of the members of the winning
parties and all the members of
parliament
right so that's what's called the the
russian civil war period
now i you've just said some you've just
said some positions and i'm not saying
this to insult you
it's quite possible you've never read
about that history that's not the most
right but i mean but very fundamentally
like when you talk about
democracy you know like i could ask you
well do you think the people who won the
election
should have formed the government
instead of lenin and i'll let you know
the the party that won the
election they were called the socialist
revolutionary party
so they were far to the left but they
were not as insane as the bolsheviks
so if they had been allowed to rule they
would have had a democratic
but very left-wing government in power
probably a government you would have
more in common with
than you have in common with london or
stalin so
this puts it in a very pragmatic context
like what
you know what what does democracy mean
to you and what does socialism watch as
would be like communism i would i got
you know richard wolff uh
he's quite a popular figure in like
socialism at the minute and and the
what he points socialism to be and then
again the way that he's like we've
learned from our mistakes and we've
learned from the problems of the last
century
and what we talk about is the
democratization of the workplace as well
as the political environment
and that's where i would say that i rely
upon it okay okay
but let's
okay but but let's keep this kind of uh
tangible in its simplicity if you value
democracies you just said
then morally and politically you must
oppose lenin
and what lenin did like you must look
back on history before right
yeah okay okay good you gave a
relatively positive statement about that
and before
which i wouldn't do i wouldn't say you
know i wouldn't say anything positive
with that about that
i think i think you've got to like take
lenin like as what lenin was and i do
think that
again like i say i do not agree with i
don't even agree with revolutionary
politics i do not see revolution that
has it
as a way of taking control and power of
a state i see this
but what i do is think about reynolds
lenin's writing and like trotsky's
writing
is like their overall arcing goals and
what they wanted
was idealistic and uh what they wanted
to do
what they saw was like impeding
obviously this um
overall like what they saw as the best
state for the individual
was obviously capitalism and they were
seeking any way in shape or form of
seizing power and opposing um the the
capitalist regimes which were
causing issues causing issues with
within the 20th century
but i think that like don't get me wrong
like i think lenin was a bad guy
and i just think that he's ideal like
his overall
goal in terms of what he was never
anywhere near he's disgusting pragmatism
of how he you know sees control
and uh you know exercise power and
authority ruthlessly
against even his own people and it's
repugnant
but his overall arcing like ends of his
um
you know communism quote unquote were
actually somewhat decent that he just
were never going to happen within the
way he was approaching politics
oh okay so you know i wouldn't agree
with any of that
but the the type the type of excuse
you're making for lenin now
i don't excuse you but look it is you're
really giving them a lot of
possibilities but i don't let me just
suggest you it's a useful pragmatic real
world comparison
i don't think you would make any of
those excuses for the government of
japan
from 1910 through to the end of world
war ii
and those excuses you've used made for
land they're much more true of the
government of japan to talk about it as
an idealistic
thing you know what what japan was
trying to do in that period
and of course japan was also much more
successful japan did not produce the
kind of
unbelievable dystopia that leninism
produced
and japan never i mean as repressive as
japanese fascism was however you want to
describe that
regime the air sats mix of japanese
shintoism and emperor warship and they
did have a parliament they did have some
democracy by the way in japan in that
period limited democracy you might say
but no they did they they kept electing
the diet they kept having newspapers
that had the freedom to criticize the
government
there were many important features of
democracy you could say even in the
so-called
uh fascist authoritarian period in japan
i i wouldn't make these kinds of excuses
for japan in that period either but i'm
pointing out
once you've adopted that excuse-making
mentality
of saying and you know i i understand
you're being sincere i appreciate you
saying that you sympathize with the
ideals and objectives of lenin
and then you're willing to rationalize
this other stuff in that context well it
would make
way more sense for you to be a japanese
fascist both in reference to what
happened historically
no but and in reference to what the
present day situation is
right the the present-day result of what
lenin did
is vladimir putin's regime in russia and
you don't want to live there
right and the person but it's but it's a
sincere argument
i mean you may say that's a bad argument
i know you come out of a kind of
textbook university
uh philosophy background but i mean this
is real life like
we have to make decisions no i'm sorry
but i mean this in a shallow real life
sense of like
ultimately you have to decide would you
rather live in russia
or italy or japan like these are the
kinds of shallow decisions that matter
the types of compromises you make like
are you willing to come on the internet
and say something positive about
lenin or say something positive about
the history of japanese imperialism
those are like it may be shallow but
that's the reality of how we live with
politics
right so i i just say it's partly sharp
one
for example i wouldn't defend like um
i'm not defending lennon's pride like
when i say like i was going to talk
about lennon's disgusting pragmatism i
mean his actions i mean that the way
that lenin actually behaved
i think was actually counter to to the
ideals that he seemed to profess within
his writing even like when he talked
about the
excuse me the end goal of communism and
a lot of that was stolen obviously from
marx
and and they kind of propped up in like
this kind of idealistic thinking but
then you've got like obviously
i was just telling the audience i'm
reading like terrorism and communism uh
with trotsky and like the reality is is
that like people don't like to talk
about how trotsky was actually kind of a
bad guy
right right right i understand why
why do you put yourself in this
conflicted position so like
i think you would agree like it's not
contentious in our culture in 2020 but
it could be
i think you would agree that the
japanese imperial period
had both good and bad right now we could
digress into naming it off right
you know like for among other things it
was a period of modernization and as
there's and it produced japan as we have
today and it was
japan being ruled by an elected
government the diet there were elements
of democracy and freedom of speech so
we've alluded to some of this
right like it wasn't all bad japanese
imperialism and that's part of why japan
is this today
is not all bad so you could take a
conflicted view of that and say i see
both the good and the bad
in japanese imperial history why why but
why
why do this with lenin given what you
said for me sorry just to finish the
pillars
given what you said about lenin and
leninism why wouldn't your position just
be
this is bad and wrong and regrettable
you know like why put yourself in
positions
like forms of fascism and another like
politically repugnant regime i would
never want to mimic them
but i would say like you can you know
like take for example naughty journey as
disgusting as it was
had a welfare state uh to some degree
and
i i agree with the concept of a welfare
state i just don't agree with the
gutting of the jews you know what i mean
and like obviously i'm not
cherry-picking parts of that state
because i would never want to
replicate aspects of that state because
it was it was vile disgusting
and obviously one of the greatest
atrocities that i've ever faced
humanity and i i would never be
apologetic towards seeing that and even
saying that about the ussr i do think
that the ussr was a disgusting regime
in the first place but then even
associating those uh regimes
like we've got to remember that all of
these regimes would be like what we've
been discussing so far have been
totalitarian
and obviously the type of socialist or
communist that you
you talk to they may not be totalitarian
so for example i'm an anarchist
i don't even believe in i don't even
believe in the kind of democracy that we
have i think the kind of democracy we
have is
is uh shallow and it's uh you just said
you approve of a social welfare state
though but go on i'm sorry but you just
said that come on
so you want anarchy but with a social
welfare state okay well that's a pretty
big conversation with your thoughts okay
like an educated uh an educated
population willing to engage in mutual
uh cooperation and i think that's what
real democracy and anarchy would look
like i think
the the real goal of like socialism i
think like in its truest
most pure form is um almost uh it's a
a massive long shot away from what we
even talk about today
it's about an educated population
willing to engage within social
cooperation
for advantage of the everyday individual
and willing to genuinely help
their fellow individual out of a state
of ethical obligation and i think that's
what
i think that most as you say like
well-meaning you know
socialists going into it today are
actually looking at socialism like that
okay so look i'm i'm it's not that i'm
disregarding what you said but i'm
replying to something you said
a whole two minutes ago or something um
i think you are correct to raise the
issue of
cherry-picking but what i'm asking about
really is the ethos or the ethic of
cherry-picking
you can cherry-pick like we can say
hey during the japanese imperial period
these are some things they did right
and maybe these are even things we can
learn from today or we could do in
canada
or scotland or wherever sorry i know
you're not from scotland you're from
earth
but we can talk about scotland as an
exotic foreign country both of us i used
to live in scotland many years ago
um anyway you know you can
engage in cherry picking but there were
ethical
questions involved right now you know so
you raised the example of
of nazi germany totally appropriate i
have no complaints and then the
comparison to
uh lenin and communism so on you know i
think you know what i'm pointing out to
you is
you know why would you cherry-pick
lenin this way and then what does that
say about you ethically
and what is your relationship you know i
can say on youtube between you and your
audience but just
in general in politics between you and
the people you're you're working with if
that's you're willing to do
so you know today
2020 would you really tell the people of
cambodia
that they should go back to communism or
even in a more
cherry-picking specific fashion would
you say to the people of cambodia
hey you know there are bits and pieces
of leninism
that are still right and good and you
should go back and pick up and
see i would not do that i also would not
today in 2020 say to the people of
germany
that they can go back and cherry-pick
hitler and that they were possessed
but to give an example you may not know
this hitler was opposed to
cigarette smoking and he was especially
opposed to women smoking cigarettes
during pregnancy
he had a campaign to eliminate cigarette
smoking so as absurd as it may sounds
you know you can you can revive some
isolated things of this but i wouldn't
do that
even if hitler is correct about smoking
during pregnancy if you go back and read
what he
said it's insane racist [ __ ] you could
probably imagine it's about
the the the decline of the race through
cigarette smoking you know
it's really you know like
even even even when he's right he's
wrong like even when he's right about
something it's morally repugnant
like i i really think there is a point
in politics to saying look lenin is a
guy who hunted down and murdered the
people who won the election
and i am fundamentally someone who's
pro-democracy
so i am fundamentally someone who's
anti-leninism like before we even get
into stalinism or mao zedong
at this stage i can say here are
fundamental problems with communism and
even to some extent
fundamental problems with socialism
definitely fundamental problems with
marxism i i think
but i'm saying this because i think
that's part of your own perspective
like that you may not be entirely honest
with yourself about that's a necessary
implication of some of your own values
that you was about don't get me wrong i
think that
pretty much everything you've said i
agree with in many ways
i guess the real issue that i have is
the conflation between
for example for example lenin's ideals
and socialist ideas or
even communist values right like um okay
totally reasonable point that's a very
chalkboard point but it's a reasonable
point
yeah that's the thing so like i think
like for example lenin being any
democracy that is something that you
would not find
most socialists talking about today
right but they're lying to themselves
but that's my point like that's the
thing is if you're honest with yourself
you have to reject london for that
reason right go on what about
socialism
right so look look there's a great
question and we can return that but just
to seemingly digress but to me it's
returning to the root of this the
decision we're making
is not about the future of canada or the
future of england right the decision you
and i are making right now are about is
what kind of person do i want to be what
kind of person am i going to become
right
and i'm telling you i am not someone
who's going to compromise with leninism
or stalinism
i'm not someone who's going to live my
life making excuses for or rationalizing
or relativizing
what was wrong with communism and i i
don't even do that with the japanese
empire
of you know 1910 to 1945 or something
whatever it is you want to use
like i don't i don't even do that which
is a much less kind of
horrifyingly one-sided you know evil
example
so you know the point the point i'm
raising here like
yes we can get into how exactly do you
define
you know what socialism and what's not
to what extent is denmark a possible
example
but we know you know and i know your
whole youtube channel would be different
your interactions with the audience will
be different your career in the future
would be different after you finish this
this phd
if you start describing yourself as
someone who wants
the future of england to look more like
the president in denmark
right that's a totally modern position
and if you're someone who says openly
that you don't support you don't
compromise with lenin or stalin you just
rather
that's a completely different position
morally aesthetically and even
pragmatically it's going to lead you
into two different things
as opposed to sitting around saying that
you're an anarchist but you still see
value in the legacy of
of lenin and stalin and so on right like
that's
you are making a choice both about the
kind of person you actually are
and also how you present yourself to
other people how you work with others
but this has this has implications
uh that frankly are are philosophical in
nature given that you're a philosophy
gym
oh yeah yeah i mean absolutely i want to
say that like when we look at when we
approach
life especially the main decision that
we do have to make is how
how we are going to live our lives and i
think that the ancient greeks did a
great job of like
of educating us on that point in the
first place like most of western
philosophy
has been about that and um ethics is
like a primary
interest of mine like i'm that's what
that's what i do i'm a vegan you know
like
for that for that reason you know like
uh you know you know like the
glorious vegan revolution you know
but look we're both vegan
so you can relate to this it would it
would be convenient for me to have an
excuse-making mentality towards leather
like oh well if it's second-hand leather
or if i bought it before i became vegan
i can still use leather that would be
convenient that would be expedient
right but i don't do that because of
this question of who do i want to be and
then also how do i interact with other
people
i make the decision no i'm not going to
compromise that i'm going to have an
uncompromising attitude
towards rejecting leather like i think
you can see even within your own
convictions there is a reason for you to
have an uncompromising attitude towards
leninism socialism and communism
in that same way even if it's not even
if it's not practical like even if
pragmatically
it would be convenient to use secondhand
leather or would be convenient
to to roll around like [ __ ] vaush
and these other like pro communist
youtubers and build up that audience
my main point is that like like yes
absolutely like we do have to choose who
we are today
we do have to choose like how we are
going to live our lives in the most
ethical way possible
you know i think even that like you know
jordan ps and like you know take
responsibility for yourself tell your
people kind of mentality but i think
like slovakia
is a great point in responding to that
and just says like yeah but what happens
when somebody else is messing your room
you know what i mean and taking
responsibility and like um understanding
your place within
women in the world is understanding
again like how what states should be
formed and how we should obviously
interact with one another politically
and if we accept that then we have to
understand that okay
so looking back upon history what um
what can we expect from certain like the
implementation of certain states and all
and also what moral responsibilities
should we expect
the government uh if it exists to to
perform what uh responsibilities should
the citizens have
how should corporations um exist in
relation to
you know even like employee employer
relationships should be allowed them to
be propagated onwards forever
and i think that when we start asking
these questions i think that the moral
the the moral decision that comes out of
this is honestly i would say
is a democratization of the workplace
and there's a democratization of how we
how we live our lives in terms of like
as a workforce like the employee to
employ your relationship i would say is
an inherently
exploitative relationship the idea of a
wage for example
like i think the marxists and early 20th
century
um communists even um the ones that were
even anti-leninist
at that time showed like even worker
even um women's rights movements
at that time were showing that like the
concept of a wage they rejected that
like when that was being like promoted
they were saying that
a wage is is uh is wrong you are rending
an individual you are not paying them
for their labor or the product of them
they love
and so i would say that like the
rejection of these unjustified kind of
economic distributionary methods
is the primary goal of like most like
like many socialists not all socials
get your tankies and your legalists and
you you people who are full of [ __ ] but
like
you do have the moralists who are you
know tradition who are who are
socialists
and i would say like don't get me wrong
i'm not going to cherry pick glenn in
and say like there are good parts of
london
i don't need to like i don't even look
at london's regimes i'd even look at
trotsky's regimes i don't need to look
at
you know like uh what went on in like
all these horrible regimes in the world
people were like oh well this was good
that was bad
like i i just meant in a philosophical
level but i think that is
i think that is a significant decision
for you to make you know publicly and
and privately i mean i'm part i'm really
just encouraging you to have a more
uncompromising attitude in living out
your own ethical values
but i'm not really trying to change your
ethical values in this conversation but
pointing out to your ethical values
are are in your in some political
decisions you made like being
fundamentally pro-democracy making that
central to your view of the world
well that's incompatible with a lot of
this [ __ ] you're you're compromising
how is democracy incompatible with like
anarchism like so for example
like
good question i want to reply to
something you said about three minutes
ago
oh sorry i would just happen but it's
okay but we're kind of several different
topics here and self-directed which is
good
sign up good conversation but a couple
minutes ago um
you were talking about ethical decisions
and fundamental
commitment to being moral okay and i
want to point out you know
i'm radically open-minded and flexible
about that but there has to be a point
and you have to be honest
with yourself about what is the point of
making this
moral compromise or even doing something
you know to be evil
apologies if you already know this but
you may not i signed up to join the army
to fight against isis it's only a couple
years ago when that war was very much
hot and ongoing
so isis the islamic state right now
there are all kinds of immoral
elements to that right and just to give
a really quick one if you're vegan
in that war you know they had a lot of
problems with sheep on the road
you know in afghanistan and what have
you and i
you shoot people but it may sound
ridiculous you also
shoot sheep in that war it happened
quite a bit now if you ask me on a
chalkboard
you know like we're in a philosophy
classroom in a university
is it moral or immoral to shoot a sheep
you're not even going to eat the sheep
you know and everything you're shooting
you're killing an animal just as an
obstruction to traffic
you know oh sure in a sense it's immoral
am i willing to do it yes
with no hesitation i'm at war we're
trying to win this war
we're going to shoot cheap we're going
to shoot people like there are all kinds
of immoral and unethical things
i am willing to commit to do and i am
not going to lie to myself and i'm not
going to lie to anyone else
i'm not going to lie to my girlfriend or
my wife or my grandkids
about what it is i did or why but yes
i'm willing to make the commitment
to do evil and unethical things for a
reason
for a reason that i know right just to
clarify your girlfriend and your wife
depends i mean if i convert to mormonism
no it's just whether my point is whether
it's your girlfriend or your wife or
whatever however it works out you know
the whatever your situation may be uh
but look you know that's
one of the temptations converting to
mormonism or converting to islam you get
you get more options uh i'm all right
but look you know
look man i used to live in france i used
to live in thailand there were a lot of
alternative lifestyles there
all right really that's the kind of
standard model for marriage in france
let alone
getting into thai culture look you
could commit to embracing what's bad and
evil and wrong
with socialism as a philosophy or
anarchism as a philosophy or even
communism as a philosophy
if there were a point but like i'm
suggesting to you in current
circumstances in 2020
there actually isn't a point and in some
ways like you may be doing yourself a
disservice
like you may be really limiting
positively what you can do with your
life by by making these
compromises now like you know right now
there's a revolution going on in
thailand okay
and it it may be unsuccessful i mean i
if you were gambling on it
it's pretty like it's quite possible it
will fizzle out and nothing's really
going to change
at the end of this attempted revolution
[Music]
yes there are there are
fun to put it this way there are
fundamental questions about how
democratic or not democratic
thailand is going to be in the immediate
future okay all kinds of people
have to make the compromise like they
don't they don't agree with everything
in the revolutionary party let's say but
they say okay i'm going to make this
garmin's i'm going to commit to joining
this party
to achieve this objective and then after
the revolution is over
we can debate all kinds of other things
right people do make those commitments
but what i'm saying to you is making
excuses for lenin
like fraternizing in this way or
compromising this way
playing these games with these
particular ideologies it makes no sense
in cambodia
in 2020 it makes no sense in canada in
2020 i think it makes no sense even in
in england or scotland
in 2020 like even on that level of like
being willing to embrace something evil
for an outcome you're pursuing i still
think this is fundamentally
wrong like i really think in 2020 so i
really think just just in one sentence
because
you just saw that video you know i have
many many videos talking about the
history of communism and social
hundreds or something but you know the
ones that you just saw what i'm saying
to members of black lives matter to the
blm movement and i've made other videos
talking about it
that are more than 30 minutes long
greater length is no
in 2020 the correct choice is to
actually reject marxism
not to like play this game of trying to
appropriate from marxism or where the
worth the cape of being a marxist like
no like
actually that's the right choice to make
and and i don't just mean it in a
chalkboard sense
i even mean it in this pragmatic sense
of being willing to to do something evil
for some kind of
one like i outcome wouldn't advocate
anyone to do anything evil necessarily
anyway because i'm not revolutionary so
i'm not arguing that people do anything
that is uh like cruel and unusual trying
to overthrow the capital of state level
like that i'm not i'm not advocating for
that like in terms of like advocating
for like a socialist um
recording revolution or social change i
would talk about um i don't know if
you're familiar with it which is called
the long march through the institutions
in which we try and uh democratize our
institutions
and slowly to move towards um a
socialist state and a socialist state
as being defined as a state which is
based around mutual cooperation
and for um the for the benefit of the
general population
rather than let's say that the
production of profit versus capital in
which of our capitalism right
and then like so when we talk about like
you know the the
the moral responsibility of the
individual and like what people would be
or would not be willing to do i know
that like black lives matter for example
talking about the abolition of the
police force
talking about killing the police someone
doing some horrible things like don't be
wrong i'm critical of the movement
myself
um i i'm not actually a fan of like the
way it's being led
or like lack of relationship even um or
other way
of its overall political goals if it
even has any because
legislative like change um it has its
issues and it's and it's certainly
different to necessarily what i would
say that
there should be advocating for um and
and i do think that obviously as you say
many of the the leaders for example have
been influenced by
some of the the tanki kind of you know
leninist stalinist like regimes and
maybe being influenced by this idea of
like
direct revolution because you know at
the end of the day like people like the
whole communist
like aesthetic right i mean like the the
the um
you know the stalinist like you know red
revolute like the london red revolution
like kind of aesthetic that was
deliberate propaganda in the first place
like it's it's sexy you know what i mean
that the
people like you like the revolutionary
like life it looks sexy right
i don't i don't want any of that like my
philosophy is not so sexy because it's
actually
about making the world a better place
right right so
look i know that's that's why that's
part of why i've raised this
conversation the way it is
is that like i feel like your
packaging your wrapping what you're
doing on the surface
isn't really consonant with doesn't make
sense for
who you are at your core or whatever
like i and
like i'm not you can tell like this is
this is not me saying i hate you or
something
it's saying look i think if you really
think about it maybe
you know maybe not today maybe not
tomorrow maybe the next few months or
something
probably you need to think about
rebranding yourself a little bit because
if this is
who you are and what you're about i i
see a lot of
self-contradictory compromises you're
you're getting yourself involved with
that just don't make sense for you i
also don't think they make sense for
england or cambodia or the whole world
in general but for you specifically
take cambodia right now i mean cambodia
is an incredibly poor country when
they're in the capitalist regime like uh
like take like vietnam i mean like
usually
as an example vietnam was like you said
it was a hybrid between uh capitalism
and communism i probably knocked it out
it was like totalitarianism and and
capitalism
like china i would say china's fascist i
would say that it's it's a totalitarian
government
with a capitalist uh economy based
around like um
uh a somewhat half planned economy
around a particular group's interest
and ultimately around this nationalistic
goal like ultimately like [ __ ] the west
kind of mentality
and and i would say that all of this is
also happening in in capitalism today
and so even if we take like your
mentality like when we're choosing to be
like
what we are choosing to be and if we
admit that like we kind of have at this
kind of point in time
this uh decision to be a capitalist or a
communist or a capitalism associates or
whatever it may be
like the choice of being a capitalist is
just as fundamentally obstructive to
justice as the choice of being let's say
even a state so stay communist because i
mean like if you have ahead of
the black book of capitalism like 100
million people are supposed to have died
because of like capitalism and if we
talk about
you know like poverty exploitation the
proxy wars the you know the respect even
the wall like for example in iraq like
the toppling of
uh saddam hussein and then the killing
of the civilians there
uh afghanistan the the propping up of
saddam hussein in the first place by the
american government
and you know libya syria like many of
these um
conflicts in the first place have been
engineered because of corporate
interests but but what
what you're engaging in right now this
is what this is what the british call
what aboutism
i think the british know that phrase
more than americans this is what about
ism
and and you are engaging in
a no true scotsman fallacy in order to
justify communism like now you look you
may not realize this but
this is what i see and this is what
other people who are
moderates or pragmatists who are neither
extreme left or emergency
what you just said to me now i know
you're accustomed to it and you've
probably said this same thing with minor
differences
10 20 times in your life what you were
doing there
beginning with saying that you don't
recognize the current government of
china
as communist right this is a no true
scotsman's value oh
oh so communism remains unstained by the
historical reality
of what china was or is the historical
reality of what vietnam and cambodia
were in the past or like why do this why
do this to yourself
you know like look i mean look at mao
like i was [ __ ] discussed in person
right okay right but let's look but
let's keep it simple but let's keep it
simple
dude dude communism like is this is this
right or is this wrong
this is the whole point like what do you
define these regimes are so for example
socialism the combination of socialism
and communism
how would you say like for example uh an
anarcho-socialist who argues for
the democratization of the workplace the
democratization of the government
the removal of corporate interests and
lobbying interests that are corrupting
our current democracy
and how would you can compare them for
example against uh something like you
know
the maoist regime in china which is
like totalitarian and uh i remember
there was a letter
sent in to dan savage dan savage is a
sex advice columnist from a guy
who said that he considered himself
heterosexual he was married to a woman
he wasn't attracted to and that when he
went to the gym
he would receive oral sex from other men
but not have anal sex and he was writing
and saying do you think i'm gay or
straight
okay now look you know well you have
blow jobs with men but not anal sex
how do you want to define it to me this
is like a complete [ __ ]
self-defeating and no no but but like
but let's this is important
my whole no but look my whole approach
to politics
ultimately this is about motivation and
honesty and integrity and what kind of
person you want to be now what okay look
if a man says that to you if a man says
to you that he has oral sex with other
men but doesn't consider himself gay
his motivation is what's important here
not the definition of the word gay
like in some languages in some cultures
maybe gay is defined so narrowly that he
doesn't give us it
doesn't matter you can see but his sorry
just let me finish
his motivation is self-justification
he's trying to justify himself
and his identity right who would have
the motivation who would have the
motivation
to claim that mao zedong was not a
communist
that is just ridiculous who would have
the motivation to claim that vietnam
today
or or you know cambodia in the 1970s was
not communist
now i'll tell you who has that
motivation other communists
right throughout the whole history of
mongolia
the communist government of mongolia was
publishing uh propaganda
claiming that china wasn't a legitimate
communist country that mongolia was
that's who does that right like so i'm
just saying i know you want to point
towards this more
chalkboard world how exactly do we find
communism no
all of these countries are communists
and all of these people
are gay there's more than one way to be
gay okay and there's more way to be
communist
and this is communism and who would who
would claim it's not
they get communism socialists all the
time right so but i i think you know the
answer to that question these are these
are hybrid economies
[Music]
right oh no i wouldn't say that at all i
mean in many of those countries
for example you can say they have a
socialist university system and a
socialist healthcare system
so those are significant parts of the
economy that are socialist
system based around the tax
reimbursement of that tax redistribution
of wealth
based like high tax high tax system uh
drawing as much money into the
government right but look i tell you you
don't you don't
do economics but yeah that's socialism
and by definition you draw a line in the
economy and some things are
socialized and some are not so in some
countries really quick example
in some countries the generation of
electricity is socialized you say there
are no private companies involved
the government directly takes tax
dollars so no but that absolutely that
is that is textbook definition of what's
what socialism
what's not so a country a country like
denmark is a hybrid economy
the united states also is a hybrid
economy but they they draw the line of
how much is free market and how much a
socialist
at a different point in different
got an issue and that's kind of the ways
i was trying to say like i i i would say
that if we're if we
are like drawing lines it's like you
know i like what point is
is the guy gay you know what i mean am i
holding hands with the guy is that gay
is it
you know what i get our traps gay you
know you know what i mean
right right okay but this good this
brings back but the point is
what i'm questioning is not where you
draw the line like it's fine you're
asking the question it's a legitimate
question
what i'm asking is what is your
motivation
to claim this if you say you only suck
dick a couple times a month you don't
think you're gay
[Laughter]
extremely erudite hypothetical academic
conversation here
but if you were to say that you only
suck dick a couple times a month and you
still think you're straight what's
really important to address is your
motivation in making the claim
it's not really the plausibility of the
claim or where you where you draw the
line
you still want to assert right in this
hypothetical example
you still want to assert your
heterosexual right like you still want
to assert your heterosexual even though
you have gay sex in this everything
so that's that's the significance of it
in terms of motivation but like
this brings back who who would claim
and you did earlier and this i think
this points to this deep fissure within
what you're doing philosophically and
politically that you need to
like i suggest you know again i'm not
saying this to you but i suggest in the
next weeks or months
you really think about it and try to try
to make this career instead of
incoherent
who would say to me or anyone who would
make the claim
that mao zedong was not communist or
that communist china wasn't that's
ridiculous who would say that vietnam
or laos are not coming of course they're
communists that's just ridiculous
what are you defining it's like when you
talk about like that guy like sucking
dick and then
not saying that he's not gay it's
because that you know sucking dead
is gay right like it is like it is a
sexual act
where two men are participating in this
in sexual acting together
that is uh overtly homosexual right
but like when we talk about china what
is overtly communist about china
all that we have is the totalitarianism
look sorry but
look so i am not saying this from social
i don't know i don't know if you've read
one book about the history of china
yes china is overtly communist so i used
to work at a university
okay the university was controlled by a
communist party secretariat i have a
photograph of myself standing in front
of the door
and there's a hammer and sickle logo the
government of china today even down to
the level of particular hospitals and
particular universities like on that
small scale of of management it is ruled
by
a communist party everyone in that
communist party
studies the philosophy of marx lenin mao
zedong a list of communists
they write exams proving that they've
done the reading and understand the
philosophy
it is ruled by comics it is overtly
ostentatiously communist they sing
communists sorry but please please
if you ask the question because you did
ask the question what is overtly
communist about china they literally
have parades
where the army marches and they sing
communist songs
in unison and that's the government
doing that so if you're asking
what is overtly communist i'm saying
what are you blind
like this is way more absurd this is way
more observant than the homosexuality
questions
but like look at it like this it's like
for example stalinists aren't leninists
right
we're going to agree that like there was
a there's a there's a distinction
between uh i'm assuming we can agree
that there's a distinction between
stalinism and leninism uh in terms of
like
how the state would have been run which
is why stalin assassinated trotsky right
like
because he didn't right right but
there's a difference there's different
oral sex and anal sex too right there's
a difference in oral sex
everywhere and then usually had a
minister um particularly
his name that would use lenin's courts
of lenin
to justify whatever like stalin or the
ussr
but why are we even getting into these
these details do we we know they're both
communists
stalinism is a form of communism blended
is a form of it's not debated
it's not about them
the point is the same yet
stalinism used leninism as an aesthetic
to masquerade
its actual uh political interpretation i
know i know but you this is real what
about people
at no point have i been arguing that
stalinism and leninism are the same like
this is what you know that's not part of
my argument
like so for example like the way that
china works today
in terms of economics has no economic
ties
to marxism if you look at the way that
workers are treated
and the way that workers rights are
enforced or the idea of the dictate of
the proletariat
the alienation of the worker is more far
more severe in china
than it is in many other in many other
capitalist
the the whole point is that china does
not abide by
what would be the economic um
the the economic dictates of marxism it
doesn't at all
not at all not even a little bit and all
it has is a totalitarian
state so like why would you like so like
what i'm saying is like with
with china i understand why you say like
obviously that that communist maybe in
um
in ideologue ideology right just as that
guy who
is uh you know sucking dick is straight
in his mind
like china is straight they are
communist in their minds but in action
they are capitalists they do not
they do not actually reflect any of the
actions that would be representative of
a marxist
okay right but your choice today is
if you're pro-communist or
anti-communist if you're going to make
excuses for this or engage in cherry
pick or not
and this so this is what i said because
i think i know your answer so if i ask
you today so
given everything you've just said about
china given the current situation
chinese this way
do you think china would be better or
worse
if they had elections let's say the
exact same system of elections that they
have right now in switzerland
so elections and direct democracy and
people can propose
amendments to the constitution and have
a referendum let's say let's just say
they copied and pasted the swiss
constitution
into the chinese constitution if they
had democracy instead of communism in
that sense
instead of being ruled by a communist
dictatorship
a communist leadership that as you have
pointed out correctly rules over an
economy that's like
ninety percent capitalist or something
you know what what exactly the percent
maybe some people would say it's 70
some people say it's 95 because again
you have to count in things like
hospitals and universities there are
parts of the economy in china that are
still
more communist than you think in the
military and what have you but in any
case it is
a predominantly capitalist society ruled
over by conversation
but you now in 2020 do you think it
would be an improvement
to replace that communist part of the
system with the democratic part of the
system
oh absolutely a democratic might so
you've got to leave that accordingly bro
like that's all i'm saying is you have
to start living your life and pack
yourself down with philosophy
as someone who is anti-communist in that
sense because that's all it takes
like that's not socialism
these are real world these are real
world palpable examples
right now the government of nepal
is communist now right away i mean like
i said before there's a difference
between oral sex and anal sex but it's
all sex right if if right now if we make
a comparison
so just real quickly if you make a
comparison right now
if you make a comparison between the
government of nepal and the government
of vietnam
just to pick two examples and say in
what ways are these two places congress
it's very different
you're going to come with a long list of
really meaningful differences right
but still if i were to ask you the
question do you think the way forward
for nepal
in the next 20 years do you want nepal
to become more like china today
or do you want nepal to become more like
switzerland your answer your honest true
answer is that you want nepal to be more
like switzerland
and on some level you know it you're
just not living
where accordingly the next society is
going to develop like do i want like for
example nepal to be more like scamming
like switzerland rather or china well
you basically
prop no for example perhaps one of the
most moral states in the world
versus one of the least moral states in
the world right so why don't you start
if you believe that make that start
living that identity if you think that
switzerland is one of the most moral
states in the world you that should be
who you describe
you're not even a socialist anymore now
you're a swiss-ist we're gonna tell you
you're
you're a helvetionist you're a helvetian
republicist like
you have to start living that way man go
on but i mean like it'd be like if you
met someone who was in denial about
being vegan
if i met someone who doesn't describe
themselves as vegan but they live a
vegan diet and they think leather is
immoral
i'd say look you got to start calling
yourself vegan like start living
accordingly
for example what i admire from
scandinavia you said that they are
socialist aspects of the economy
when i'm talking about like the things
that i've met from scandinavia
they would be what you describe as them
so those socialist aspects of the
economy right
it's just like when um when we talk
about uh
and if you genuinely believe that that's
a form of socialism and it's a mixed
hybrid economy
then how can we deny that like for
example the world happiness reports
of these hybrid economies between
socialism and capitalism
is not like if if socialism is this
degradation
uh towards our our identities towards
the way that we live in a moral and
our moral you know framework then why
are scandinavia
such moral paragons compared to
somewhere like the united states
which is by far more right-leaning and
more uh traditionally capitalist
and that's what i would say it's like
would you want nepal to be more like for
example
scandinavia or would you want it to be
more like the united stands
yeah right so so just mentioned i'm
writing a book right now which makes my
political views more clear than you you
might enjoy it
at various reasons various points in
this i thought gee this guy might be
interested in my book the book isn't
finished yet i'm doing the the final
rewrites and revisions and writing the
concluding chapter now so probably
within a week or something i'm going to
finish this book and i'm sharing it as a
pdf on
on patreon but this conversation is only
in small part about
me but i don't know how many of my
videos you've seen about
socialism but my perspective on
socialism is not the socialism should be
abolished
i take the pragmatic view that at all
times some portion of the economy is
socialist and some portion is free
market or capitalist
and so obviously the percentage of the
economy that is socialist in denmark
is much higher than it is in the united
states of america and
you know uh with a country like canada i
think canada is a very very poor
uh quality and system of government
obviously switzerland is a more positive
example for canada to
to look at in many ways but you know i i
just say
like so i assume you're in your your
early twenties now
uh late twenties okay so i'm i'm i'm 42.
so i'm 42. i just said i think it's a
hard thing but like
my perspective on you is not that you're
a bad person it's not that you have bad
intentions
my perspective on you is that you're
someone who's become too accustomed
to the chalkboard academic world and i
know you're rebelling against
some extent too like you were just
saying what complete [ __ ] the
university system is and university
philosophies
at this point but like but like in the
real world
these are the kinds of hard pragmatic
decisions we have to make now i'm
interested in nepal
it's very unlikely i'm now going to move
to nepal and make nepal my next cambodia
but i'm tempted you know it's a
possibility in my mind it's because also
the language there is very easy to learn
compared to cambodian believe me you and
i could both learn a indigenous nepalese
language in like three months
if compared to chinese easy language but
look nepal is interesting to me
politically
it would be so hard for me to move to
nepal
and advocate for a more democratic
future in a context that is dominated on
the one hand by communism
and on the other hand by hindu
nationalism that is attached to the
monarchy like pro monarch
monarchist hindu castes that's a really
tough political environment
for me to be in and it would probably
entail really difficult
pragmatic sacrifices it might be that
the only colleagues i have
would be people who were members of the
communist party and that would be very
disturbing for me to deal with like who
who am i going to even
eat lunch with and talk about politics
with well on the one hand there are
these hindus
hindu nationalists and the other hand
they're the communists and they're only
a couple
fragments of people who aren't signed up
with one of these groups to to fight
over the future ball
that's that's the real world that's
really tough right it involves those
those kinds of compromises
you know i was living in taiwan very
different
kind of like in taiwan they don't have a
left to right political spectrum
right as you know so it's in in
different countries in different
contexts
these choices but when you when you make
those questions
um the primary questions in your life
not
abstract questions of how do you define
socialism on a chalkboard
right but the question is who am i what
kind of person am i going to become how
am i going to live my life
what is the difference in the real world
i can make that i want to make
and then i'm going to live accordingly
right and then i'm going to live
accordingly
that's that's going to shape you and
lead to a very different life and what
you've been doing that we should be in
life is a person
that supports worker movements i would
say that i'm a person that would support
um you know the the development of
workers rights in the
like that we see today within within the
current states that we have i'll be a
person that would
support that the continued
democratization of our political systems
and a removal of this
first-past-the-post mildred
i'm the kind of person that would
advocate away from
this mindless consumerism that engulfs
the capitalist hedonistic mildew that we
live in
and move towards an ethical consumerism
that exists in something like veganism
like these are the kind of real life
changes that i would say that
individuals can and should make in their
lives and i would attribute most of
those changes in relation to the bedrock
of equality and i would argue that the
the foundations of many socialist
movements is this uh foundation of
equality this idea of rejection of a
master-slave relationship between
individuals
and the propagation of a
cooperation between between individuals
now that's what i would say
okay so i'm not i'm not going to
question any of that i'm not going to
question that
i on some level i'm wondering if you've
actually spent time with labor union
organization
with the reality of that side of
politics
i i think if you start getting involved
in that you might very quickly become
disillusioned and realize that's a
complete waste of your time
but you know i'm not leaving that aside
i'm not questioning your commitment to
libyans
but given what you've just said out
you've set out a series of uh
changes you want to make in the world
differences you want to make in the
world okay
what i'm saying to you is you may not
realize
how much it discredits you and makes you
into a joke and a lotesome person
when you say things that sound like
or actually are excuses
for lenin excuses for stalin and mao
zedong
and you have been living in an academic
context where that's kind of glad
handled it's either ignored or
encouraged
when you say things like well you define
socialism in this way and therefore
china and vietnam don't count as
socialist and we're never really
communist and they don't
discredit the fine ideals that you've
attributed to
lenin and so on dude you you are making
yourself into a crackpot
and people aren't going to tell you that
you're making yourself you are
discrediting yourself
you are disabling your ability to make a
positive school and part of the reason
is that you then can't have
those pragmatic conversations with
people who may also want to have a
society that's more like switzerland or
more like denmark
right and who don't want to have a
society like mao zedong's dictatorship
you know
what do you think communism is
in the first place because i see this
dude
dude that's like dude but okay look fine
you know i've made a lot of youtube
videos with that you know youtube but
look
can i just point out to you i'm asking
the question i'm asking the question of
who do you want to be okay i'm asked
question who do you want to be and how
do you want to live
and you're answering back how do you
define communism
like don't you realize what a crutch
this has become don't you realize what
an excuse this is
dude real world real world
mao zedong was communist
there's nothing you can say to me in
this conversation
but dude that's why why pull this back
to an academic parlor debate on a
chalkboard about how exactly you define
communism we're not going to get into a
debate about exactly how you define
homosexuality either right there's no
point like
you are disclosing your motivation of of
getting involved with this
kind of like debate i was going on the
online communities this idea like
this is kind of like okay well if it's a
girl and then child's a dick does that
make it gay but if i have a sexual
relationship
there are like obviously there are
nuances but in obviously
uh even aspects of identity in like uh
ideological uh frameworks and that's
kind of the point like
the the the whole thing is like when we
talk about like how you define communism
like so far like from what i've got from
your argument is that you just define
communism as totalitarianism
where is the economics of the communist
regime
like tell me what you think economically
socialism and communists stand for
okay why like in what way is that a
relevant answer to the point i'm raising
because i mean like i for me this is
about who you are and what
more confidence is gonna make what
economic definition of communism
would diminish or distract from the fact
that you are willing to positively
identify with this
you know like that that's that's the
point here you know we we can get into
what it was lenin was trying to
accomplish for the dictatorship of the
pole territory
with those individuals who existed in
catalonia in the 1930s who are fighting
the fascists
and trying to take back control over
their lives okay okay
okay okay okay okay
totally okay so good good new direction
okay so right now you're in your late
20s
do you think it's possible that when you
are in your late
50s you'll look back on that and laugh
you'll think wow what a stupid pointless
youthful delusion it was for me to think
that i could build my
academic career or my political career
or change the world
by glamorizing this period of five years
in the history of catalonia spain and
holding that up as an ideal
for the future of england like do you do
you think an older person
could look at that and kind of sneer
like is that
imaginable to you i mean of course they
could but then you've got like
people who are elderly for example like
noam chomsky who's anything
right right so noam chomsky did he
change the world
compare noam schatzki to bernie sanders
okay i completely disagree i look at
nomtrowski as a total failure
and no chomsky supported the khmer rouge
he supported the khmer rouge in cambodia
he published on it he backed it up for
years decades i i look at noam chomsky's
guy completely discredited himself his
political career is complete failure
and he had the potential he had the fame
on the base of his status he had fame
and wealth
being a professor of linguistics who got
famous in that field in his own right
even though i think i think his work on
linguistics is also completely horseshit
um
but you know no noam shawsky began from
a position of of power privilege and
influence
much greater than someone like bernie
sanders but he wasn't willing to make
the compromises and deal with the real
world in a way
that would actually get outcomes
right right and that's i also obvious
criticizing bernie sanders because he
wasn't willing to make the compromise
because the whole political system in
the united states is based
no no it's bernie sanders owned fault
here's why look very soon
i could talk about bernie sanders you
know what [ __ ] up bernie sanders like
you know what destroyed bernie sanders
whole life
was that he wouldn't let go of this word
socialism
he kept on calling himself a socialist
even when it was completely absurd
like i think in his early career he
probably was a socialist but after a
certain point
you have to define you have to define
the term socialist way more broadly than
homosexuality to call bernie sanders as
a socialist
but he insisted on hanging his hat on
that peg he insisted defining himself
that way
and it completely undermined it
completely discredited his booker and
that's why he accomplished nothing or he
accomplished one-tenth
of what he could have accomplished he
could have been present in the united
states of america but he wasn't
because of socialism because of his
attachment to that
ideology states of america those people
the who becomes president of the
who don't have ethics
that's kind of the point like the whole
point of like who wins elections is
based upon who can generate
dudes okay dude look your
your commitment
your commitment ultimately is not to any
definition of the word
socialist or an economic definition the
word communist or a definition of what
happened
with the anarchist party in catalonia
for a period of five years during which
time they were all heavily armed and in
a state of civil war it's
ridiculous the point of this okay
i get it i know the history of anarchism
and catalan okay i know
come on it's not utopia look i gotta
finish this sentence bro
look your commitment is not to a
definition of socialism it's not to a
different definition of medicine
your commitment is to you okay
ultimately
bernie sanders has to be committed to
being bernie sanders and you have to be
committed to being you
and all this other horseshit dude it's
really holding you back
you're pinned down by chalkboard
definitions
that just discredit you
even if we agree that we are ultimately
committed to being ourselves
and it's like who do we choose to be
but that's the first question i open
with what i want to talk to you about
it's exactly about who you choose to be
like and this is the whole point like
the point of being a socialist
in the first place
accusing someone like for example of
like richard wolff or chomsky or
the anarchists in catalonia being
similar to those individuals for example
the anarchists were fighting those
individuals you are comparing them
against
like that not not actually like
physically fighting them but
economically fighting them being
you know undermined by the communist
parties uh
the the control and authority which were
like you know basically bankrupting the
worker owned industries in that place
like essentially was the was done by the
communists that you were comparing the
anarchists against these other kind of
socialists
and and even like you know was it like
george orwell describing catalonia as
like a true era of socialism
was the the whole whole point
if you listen to this recording back i
think you've got to recognize
you like you're speaking out of like the
extent to which you've just been locked
in academia
for so long this is real academic [ __ ]
you're saying back to me
if you go around telling people in
politics on youtube just in your
personal life
if you go around telling people that you
are an anarchist
in the same sense that noam chomsky is
an anarchist that discredits you
okay if you go around telling people
that you are a socialist who sees
positive things in the ideals of lenin
although not in his execution blah blah
blah and you don't recognize
communist china as communists because
you have this idealized uh definition of
communism you attach you
that discredits you and it discredits
you not not just in the eyes of
90 of people or 95 people it discredits
you in the eyes
of a hundred percent of people who
really matter and i
i completely sympathize that living
inside a phd program
you're in a phd philosophy i realize
that you can't see that
i realize you're blind to the extent to
which you make yourself a laughing stock
by identifying with and making excuses
for those ideologies a
no machomsky school of thought anarchist
who is derided more who is more
contemptible or laughable in the
political spectrum
than the tiny coven of noah chomsky
worshiping left-wing anarchists who want
to trade stories about their really
great excuses
for supporting the khmer rouge in
cambodia and supporting hamas
in israel okay that's who those people
are
they're pro-hamas pro-palestinian nut
cases
i mean this is the [ __ ] reality of
politics
my position in this conversation is to
say to
police you know i mean so for example as
the u.n peacekeeper
in in that state and he he faced like
you know terrorism from what was like
you know the jewish and the jewish
women's army and like many of the
terrorist organizations at that time you
know facing bombs going off in the hotel
alexandria
and people like small children being
blown up around them people being killed
you know around what do you think you're
doing right now like you think you're
getting the moral high ground by raising
these like irrelevant antidotes
what's the point well the point of the
matter is is that when we talk about the
horrors of palestine and
defending the people of palestine we
can't defend the people
no no you you you have to decide what
kind of person you're going to be
like that's that's all you get to
control is your little life right
like you don't get to cheat like that's
also you know why i support veganism
i'm talking about making the difference
you can make in the world there isn't a
goddamn thing you can do about the civil
war in syria
there isn't a goddamn thing you can do
with the palestinian peace process not a
goddamn thing
you get to decide what kind of person
you're going to be and that's what i'm
saying to you you know what really
matters for you
i think like i mean
like the fact that we can have an
influence on the economics of our system
by like
modifying the ways in which worker and
the workers are involved in corporations
then like we can't have a real political
influence i mean like one of the things
i was talking about recently okay you
you think so
okay you think so you're you're you're
making the claim
you're making wait a minute wait a
minute wait a minute hold on college boy
you're making the claim that you with
your phd in philosophy
are going to be the leader of a trade
labor union and you're going to
influence them with your ideals
from noam chomsky and from catalonian
anderson that's your [ __ ] claim in
we can do another interview in 2025 and
look back at what you accomplished in
those five years
you you are claiming real world this is
not academic writing on a chalkboard
that you personally are going to become
a labor union organizer with your
[ __ ] ideology
and your excuses for leninism and all
this other [ __ ] like have you even
thought through
the sacrifices you'd have to make as a
person to be in that position of
leadership
yeah but dude i know but you did the
opposite also that's what i'm drawing
your tissues that you're making these
these self-contradictory compromises and
waffling
dude think about so i don't know if
you've known any of those guys who are
real labor union organizers
they have to go through this incredibly
boring process of getting a
degree in law related to labor unions
they have to spend years working inside
that union they've spent their whole
life surrounded by
the blue-collar schlubs that you and
then guess what all they get to [ __ ]
advocate for is higher wages
higher wages and longer vacations and
jack [ __ ] else and then they get to look
back
they get to look back at the 40 years
they spent doing that and say hey i got
people a two dollar an hour raise
and a slightly longer vacation that's
what they spent their lives
accomplishing
and you will never be able to those
people will hate you
and laugh at you and sneer at you
college boy with your phd in philosophy
and your laughable talk about noam
chomsky
and anarchist you don't realize the
extent which like if you think if you
think you're discredited in my eyes
think about how discredited you are in
the eyes of a pipe fitter
you think those people are impressed
with your ideology this is a joke man
what are you talking about like this
right like you say that one has to make
real world decisions about your ethics
yeah you've ended this conversation you
must have insulted me like at least
[ __ ] ten times
oh well i i can apologize
i'm sorry i feel insulted and i was
trying to try to give a compelling and
engaging performance for you but am i
sorry
i can't understand like you know things
are heated like you know whatever like i
get it
i understand like you know you have your
position and you know
the thing is is that i would say that
like don't get me wrong i understand
like having
a real world impact is perhaps one of
the most difficult things
uh ever right like in general right like
just having like the ability to
to change the way things are in the
world and but i don't think that means
that we should just give up right i mean
that's the whole point of veganism isn't
it like the fact that we do that we will
come here even though things
at the minute or at the darkest night
they could possibly be we have to see
the stars in the world
in the words of martin luther king you
know what i mean because at the end of
the day
this atrocity that is happening to
animals every single [ __ ] day is so
[ __ ] atrocious
that we would outright do anything to
stop it because it is disgusting it's so
it's so horrific and it's the same thing
with like the way that i'm approaching
you know the things like socialism and
so on the way that the exploitation of
the
of the working class the exploitation of
um of uh
other you know the indigenous peoples
and various countries and so on
like these things are things that i care
about and whether i can do you know make
a massive political shift
versus like actually try and make a
difference is how i'm approaching my
life and that's the ethic that i'm that
i'm trying to
do for performing
right but i'm listening to your
justification of your own politics
i was just going to say like make a real
life political kind of analogy like
right now we have brexit coming up in
britain right you know like
britain's
uh agricultural subsidies right some
cities are going to change come on
this is off topic come on brexit is off
top come on this is getting off topic is
because of this like because it gives
vegans an
opportunity to attack farm subsidies for
the first time
uh in terms of like educating the
population and also
by attempting to um change things
politically in certain directions
in order to minimize farm subsidies
which ultimately prop up you know many
agricultural businesses i'm sure you're
aware of that as a vegan like it's one
of the big things that we're trying to
fight against
and suddenly we may have an opportunity
to do that and being an individual who
has moral convictions who has ethical
convictions
like having those convictions is waiting
for an opportunity to express what is
right
in your day-to-day life even if you
cannot do it at that moment
would you not agree what you and i agree
about is having a focus on
the difference you can actually make in
your own life and it comes out with
different
phrasings and different wordings right
but what i'm what i'm challenging you
with
is that i really think that what you're
doing and how you're living
a philosophically politically every
other way is actually incompatible
with that philosophy and with many
aspects of the not even the philosophy
but the
pragmatic political conclusions you come
to
so look it's fine you you raised this
issue of brexit
but the example we're talking about
before which just based on how you state
your own
political philosophy and how you justify
your own identity it seemed to be a big
deal
because you were talking about labor
union organization
now i'm not painting into a corner i
didn't like corner you and forced you to
say that what libyanism
it seems to me that authentically and
sincerely that's a large part of how you
justify your engagement with socialism
and a particular school of anarchism
and the extent to which you flirt with
the the far left beyond that so that's
coherent like i understand
what you're saying but if you told me
based on your current situation getting
a phd
in england in philosophy et cetera et
cetera and i'm sorry if you thought i
was being insulting but i'm trying to
make you aware of
how you would be perceived as a vegan
with a phd in philosophy if you're
getting involved with labor union
activism
like i don't know and this is your
radiology and you talk about noam
chomsky
and the [ __ ] catalonian civil war
like you know like that's laughable
within labor union
activism like it's just they don't want
to [ __ ] with you they want to deal with
professional lawyers who are going to
get them a two dollar an hour raise and
longer vacations
that's what's going on in libya like i
was i wasn't saying it to insult you is
to make you aware
of what this path is because it's not
even a path you're on it's a path you're
thinking about or fantasizing about that
justifies your crime but look if you
said to me
in this conversation that the difference
you want to make is in the politics of
thailand
given what's currently unfolding i would
say to you okay interesting you know
like this is a narrow
road that you're getting on but you can
get on and i would talk to you okay
you can starting from your current
position within the next five years
you could you could become like i'm
being honest you could become the single
most famous
english language commentator on and
journalists dealing with politics of
thailand in the next five years totally
attainable
and you could become an influential
voice both in the east and the west
yeah no no but i'm being honest like i'm
not saying that you're some idiot who
can't accomplish anything in life
like i really think that's one example
of something you could do
now but my point is specifically
talking about labor union activism
within the united kingdom
from the perspective of an anarchist and
our co-socialist
as you define yourself that i look at
that and say dude that is a road that is
leading nowhere now you mentioned
you mentioned really briefly um
indigenous people's
rights movement so i don't know if you
know this your audience knows this i
have a playlist
like 100 videos long talking about my
own past involvement with that
specifically the korean ojibwe those are
indigenous peoples in canada
took up a couple years of my life
something i care about and i know about
if that was what you were saying to me i
could say okay well
yes that's a difficult road but it's a
road you can get on and there is
actually money involved you get enough
money to earn a good living and you
could have this kind of impact but not
that kind of
like you know we could talk if you were
even telling me that what you want to do
is devote your life politically to
dealing with the drug addiction problem
there are so many possible issues where
i could say yeah you know what there's a
road ahead there
oh okay and i and i could even see how
your own political philosophy and
choices would then fit into that road
and there might be positive there might
be you know negative things like there
might be some warnings or huge things
but i'm just saying it's not some kind
of generalized attack on your character
or a generalized attack on on political
activism
you know what i was saying here was
really specifically about
your political identity your political
process as you presented it to me
given your your political philosophy and
dude you know life is long
i had a period of my life where i
publicly identified as a buddhist and a
scholar of buddhism
you know and now i don't and people
treat you differently and people talk to
you differently and you meet and talk to
different people
because you're going around saying
you're a buddhist and when you go around
saying you're a vegan activist
you know some people just don't talk to
you at all who otherwise would have
talked to you and
you meet other people these are these
are choices we make on that on that
human scale but i i think you really
uh so i i assume at some point either
past present or future i assume at some
point you've had a debate
with a right wing like like a neo-nazi
right-winger like someone who's way out
on the alt-right and
sometimes they will just ask you
questions
they will just ask you questions about
the history of the roman empire
or the history of judaism and even if
they've just stated as a question you
know
right away what this guy has been
reading and who he's been affiliated
with politically
you're like whoa and i'll just mention
really quickly that even happens within
buddhism there are neo-nazis
who are buddhists believe it or not and
they'll say something right away
they'll say this is a really obvious
example some of them are more subtle but
they'll say something about the buddha
having had
blonde hair and blue eyes and being a
member of a certain
race that begins letter a you know like
but some is that obvious sums it's more
subtle
and you can tell right away oh this is
where this guy comes from
like i i'm not saying it in a character
assassination way when i say to you look
you don't realize how much you're
discrediting yourself by approaching
these issues in this way
as opposed to and i'm trying to give you
a positive example you know you can talk
about communism
in an open-minded and accepting and
pragmatic way
but where you're not you know presenting
a kind of excuse or rationalization
whether it's for lenin or for vietnam or
for china
and you know we're sure there's some
awareness of the wiggle room you know
oral sex is not the same as anal sex
communism today in nepal is not the same
as communism in laos or vietnam
and communism in china today is very
different than communism in china in the
1960s
of course of course but you can keep
your integrity as someone who's
fundamentally pro-democracy
because i read you as someone who's
fundamentally pro-democracy but you're
not really living that way
i think i would say that actually
fundamentally democracy is and even like
classic liberalist values in terms of
like john locke and enlightenment values
are um given their like full fruition
i would argue in like um you know like
like the
the uh the workout owned like
democracy that exists within uh like
market socialism you know like that's
that's kind of like what i would say
and i would say like and talk about like
comparison like you know i just like
anal sex whether this is like oral sex
in terms of like
you know like i would say that we're not
even talking about
like the same species and the same like
kind of reproductive mechanism if we
compare
something like um you know the
anarchists in catalonia
to
[Music]
like people will approach you depending
upon the labels you decide to associate
yourself with
in such a way okay good thank you for
saying that
because again i'm i'm not trying to
insult you when i say that but when i
say like look outside of academia
like if you were actually trying to get
involved with labor union activism and
this is how you present yourself in this
so what you talk about your ideology
those people will judge you way more
harshly than i will you will be a
laughingstock as a college boy with a
phd who talks about noam chomsky
cannot be ideologically regulated by
those individuals who would take and
seize control power
in order to propagate their ethics and
their morality above and other
individuals
despite not having been able to give a
justification for it
and that's why we call ourselves vegans
in the first place
okay so you just made an interesting
statement and i would say the
the exact opposite you just said the
meanings of words
can't be used by people in authority to
in brief oppress us or discriminate
against that
no so that's right so that's where i
disagree because then primarily no of
course you can
if i call people get if sorry if i say
i'm gay
people are gonna think i'm gay it's as
simple as that right if i if if you say
you're a socialist
people are gonna start of course that's
that's life on earth man of course i
can't look at it like
it's like it's like it's like when you
say like for example yourself okay
people think you're gay right but like
like even like in the 1930s the word
game meant something different i know
completely true and what communism meant
meant something different in the 1932
agreed agreed but those that's life on
earth no i mean so people can use words
to judge you and you are using words to
define yourself
and you're using words to talk about how
you feel and what you're
a performative sure in which we operate
within other individuals
and so if i'm scared to use certain
terminology because of other people's
judgment
then we aren't going to be able to have
a discourse beyond anything
from what a certain group of individuals
dictate like what is acceptable what is
not acceptable please tell me what i am
and what i'm scared to be
because otherwise i'm not going to be
able to be anything that might be worth
being
i wouldn't be a vegan right now if i
wasn't if i was scared of
social um like social ridicule like but
the point of the matter is
is i would argue that veganism is the
moral position it is the thing that we
should be doing
and i am not i'm not scared to call
myself vegan because we should be doing
it and i am trying to actively change
that stigma by being willing to identify
with it
and act accordingly
but you don't want to call yourself a
communist correct you understand the
danger in that i mean
i think you contradict yourself because
you recognize that
yeah but you you wouldn't call yourself
a maoist correct i mean just yes or no
would you close the mosque
okay but look would you call yourself a
maoist no would you call yourself a
stalinist no
so it's the same game you can pretend
you're not playing the game but you are
and that's why you identify with this
weird
mannerism now look i just want to say um
you you made a statement earlier that
you think we're not comparing
like dogs and cats or we're not
comparing two different types of dogs
we're comparing two completely different
species when you talk about
uh this particular form of anarchism you
admire
as opposed to other forms of anarchism
other forms of confidence okay
okay okay wait i gotta reply i got i
gotta speak to that and this
relates directly what you you just said
now about how you how you describe
yourself how you live with your life
as a as a political animal okay i'm
gonna tell you something right now that
the anarchists
in catalonia had in common with
lenin and with mao zedong
they had guns and they killed everyone
who disagreed with them
and and and wait a minute wait wait a
minute they didn't have elections
it wasn't based on democracy it was not
right
i mean they never even had political
control
i know i know all the excuses there were
a whole lot of people on the internet
who are going to make use of you i'm
pointing out to you if your position now
if your position now is that switzerland
is a good thing it would be an
improvement right
it's not really compatible with it with
the game you're playing like no but i
think don't get me wrong i don't think i
don't think that the end goal but i
don't think any of the states that we
see today
are like the end goal of what humanity
is capable of i don't know about you but
man i watch star trek
can i see something like that for
example idealistic as it is
as being in reach i think there's a the
episode of star trek i thought you know
like uh
it's one of the first episodes right
where you know i don't know do you like
star trek
did you know star trek uh i watched when
i was a child like uh 11
12 13 i think around there so the next
the next generation starts at the next
generation pirates
very brilliant absolutely class and like
in that like um
patrick stewart is presented by this
like omni um unlimited being who's
trying to judge humanity for all of its
like wrongdoing right
and he turns around and he says what
hamlet said in irony
i know the episode and i know the
monologue yes the monologue between
patrick stewart and q
the godlike figure q yes brilliant
brilliant monologue because i mean it's
basically shakespeare and basically what
he says is that like
humanity is capable of becoming
something better than it currently is
and there's a quote from hegel which
actually represents that
man by nature is not what he should be
and that's what i would say
okay okay and my and my response to this
is actually more anarchist than yours
and more max sterner and more niles
there's
and my answer to that is what are you
going to do in the next five years
you know like all this stuff you've got
written on the chalkboard
this whole world of academic
abstractions and then there's the
question of
what do you actually do the next video
okay i gotta call it a day there it's
been great talking to you it's our first
time speaking
one hell of a conversation would help a
podcast i hope that the people in the
audience enjoyed it
uh it's 12 24 on the west coast of
canada
as this completely spontaneous unplanned
direction good to hear from you
and i hope i hope you do accomplish a
lot in the next five years because let
me tell you something
was it the native language of nepal you
you
well i am studying languages right now
but not not nepalese
um but you know you've i know you've
been on youtube
you've been on youtube since 2015 right
so you you've
you've been aware of my channel i'm not
saying you watched every video or
something you've been wearing my channel
probably
okay you you've probably been aware on
my channel for for five years or maybe
even seven years
or something uh i just say you've been
aware of it not for just a month
you know i used to ask people every day
asking other vegans vegan activists and
other people i would ask them
what are you planning to do in the next
five years and five years later
none of them had accomplished anything
and most of those youtube channels are
shut down and gone
some of them got pregnant and had kids
but like you know let me tell you if you
if you just step away from the
chalkboard
and really think about you as one person
with two hands and two feet
and about five years ahead of you it
gets scary in a different way it gets
dangerous
in a different way and i think you will
see these ideological and abstract
decisions you're making in a very
different way on that in terms of that
human skill